Add Freighter-mobile best practices LLM reference docs (#810)
stellar/freighter-mobile: docs/skills/freighter-mobile-best-practices/references/styling.md

# Styling

## Primary: NativeWind (TailwindCSS for React Native)

The primary styling approach uses NativeWind, which brings TailwindCSS utility
classes to React Native via the `className` prop:

```tsx
<View className="pt-8 w-full items-center flex-col gap-3">
  <Text className="text-lg font-bold text-white">Welcome</Text>
  <TouchableOpacity className="bg-primary rounded-lg px-6 py-3">
    <Text className="text-white text-center">Get Started</Text>
  </TouchableOpacity>
</View>
```

Use NativeWind for the majority of layout and styling needs.

## Complex Styled Components

For components with dynamic, prop-driven styling that goes beyond what utility

> classes handle cleanly, use `styled-components/native` with typed props:

Reviewer: I think `styled-components/native` is planned for deprecation. Ideally, we want to get ride of it entirely some day so it's best to steer the AI model to use RN style in this case for complex styled components

typed component variants for common UI elements:

- Buttons
- Text / Typography
- Cards
- Inputs
- And more

**Always check SDS first** before creating custom styled components. Use SDS
components as the foundation and extend only when necessary.

## Bottom Sheets

Bottom sheets use `@gorhom/bottom-sheet` with the `BottomSheetModal` ref
pattern:

```tsx
import { BottomSheetModal } from "@gorhom/bottom-sheet";

const MyScreen: React.FC = () => {
  const bottomSheetRef = useRef<BottomSheetModal>(null);

  const openSheet = () => bottomSheetRef.current?.present();
  const closeSheet = () => bottomSheetRef.current?.dismiss();

  return (
    <>
      <Button onPress={openSheet} title="Open" />
      <BottomSheetModal ref={bottomSheetRef} snapPoints={["50%"]}>
        <SheetContent onClose={closeSheet} />
      </BottomSheetModal>
    </>
  );
};
```

Use the imperative `.present()` / `.dismiss()` methods via ref. Do not manage
bottom sheet visibility via state booleans.

## Modals

Use the custom `Modal` component (overlay-based), not React Native's built-in
`Modal`. The custom implementation provides consistent behavior across
platforms.

## Platform-Specific Styling

> Use `Platform.select()` or `Platform.OS` checks only when truly needed for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `Platform.select()` or `isIOS` and `isAndroid` checks only when truly needed for
```

# Styling

## Primary: NativeWind (TailwindCSS for React Native)

The primary styling approach uses NativeWind, which brings TailwindCSS utility
classes to React Native via the `className` prop:

```tsx
<View className="pt-8 w-full items-center flex-col gap-3">
  <Text className="text-lg font-bold text-white">Welcome</Text>
  <TouchableOpacity className="bg-primary rounded-lg px-6 py-3">
    <Text className="text-white text-center">Get Started</Text>
  </TouchableOpacity>
</View>
```

Use NativeWind for the majority of layout and styling needs.

## Complex Styled Components

For dynamic, prop-driven styling beyond what NativeWind handles cleanly, use

> React Native `StyleSheet` with computed style objects. Do not use

Reviewer: **[Blocking] "Do not use `styled-components/native`" conflicts with 16 active usages**

Foundational components rely on it today, including SDS primitives (`Button`, `Typography`, `Token`, `Toast`, `Notification`) and layout wrappers (`BaseLayout`, `OnboardLayout`, `ScrollableKeyboardView`).

Meanwhile the recommended alternative `StyleSheet.create()` has only **1 usage** in the entire codebase.

An agent touching any SDS component will either try to migrate it (risky — these are widely used) or get confused by the surrounding "forbidden" pattern. Suggest reframing:

> "Do not introduce new `styled-components/native` usage. Existing SDS primitives and layout wrappers may keep their styled-components usage until a coordinated migration. For new prop-driven styling, prefer NativeWind where possible; fall back to `StyleSheet.create()` for complex dynamic styles."

`Typography`, `Token`, `Toast`, `Notification`) and layout wrappers
(`BaseLayout`, `OnboardLayout`, `ScrollableKeyboardView`) retain their
`styled-components` usage until a coordinated migration — do not refactor them
unless that migration is the explicit goal.

```tsx
import { StyleSheet, TouchableOpacity } from "react-native";

interface PrimaryButtonProps {
  variant: "primary" | "secondary";
  isDisabled?: boolean;
}

const PrimaryButton: React.FC<PrimaryButtonProps> = ({
  variant,
  isDisabled,
  children,
  onPress,
}) => (
  <TouchableOpacity
    onPress={onPress}
    style={[
      styles.base,
      variant === "primary" ? styles.primary : styles.secondary,
      isDisabled && styles.disabled,
    ]}
  >
    {children}
  </TouchableOpacity>
);

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  base: { borderRadius: 8, paddingHorizontal: 24, paddingVertical: 12 },
  primary: { backgroundColor: "#5C63FF" },
  secondary: { backgroundColor: "transparent" },
  disabled: { opacity: 0.5 },
});
```

## Design System (SDS)

The Stellar Design System components live in `src/components/sds/` and provide
typed component variants for common UI elements:

- Buttons
- Text / Typography

> - Cards

Reviewer: **[Comment 8 — Suggestion] "Cards" is not an SDS component**

The SDS components list includes "Cards", but there is no `Cards` directory in `src/components/sds/`. The actual SDS components are: `App`, `Avatar`, `Badge`, `Banner`, `BiometricToggleButton`, `Button`, `Icon`, `Input`, `NoticeBanner`, `Notification`, `Textarea`, `TextButton`, `Toast`, `Toggle`, `Token`, `Typography` (plus `NetworkCongestionIndicator.tsx` and `SegmentedControl.tsx`).

An agent told to "check SDS first" for a card-like UI will look for a component that doesn't exist. Suggest replacing `Cards` with something that actually exists — `Banner` and `NoticeBanner` are probably the closest matches for card-like UI.

```diff
-- Buttons
-- Text / Typography
-- Cards
-- Inputs
-- And more
+- Buttons
+- Text / Typography
+- Inputs
+- Banners (standard + notice)
+- Badges, avatars, icons, toasts, tokens, and more
```

    {children}
  </TouchableOpacity>
);

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  base: { borderRadius: 8, paddingHorizontal: 24, paddingVertical: 12 },
  primary: { backgroundColor: "#5C63FF" },
  secondary: { backgroundColor: "transparent" },
  disabled: { opacity: 0.5 },
});
```

## Design System (SDS)

**RULE: Before writing any UI element, check `src/components/sds/` first. If an
SDS component covers the use case, use it — do not recreate it, do not reach for
the raw React Native primitive.**

Available SDS components:

- Buttons (`Button`, `TextButton`, `BiometricToggleButton`)
- Text / Typography (`Typography`)
- Inputs (`Input`, `Textarea`)
- Banners / Notices (`Banner`, `NoticeBanner`)
- Feedback (`Badge`, `Notification`, `Toast`)
- Controls (`Toggle`, `SegmentedControl`)
- Media (`Avatar`, `Token`, `Icon`)

Common violations to avoid:

```tsx
// WRONG — raw RN primitive when SDS covers it
<TouchableOpacity onPress={onPress}>
  <Text>Submit</Text>
</TouchableOpacity>

// CORRECT
<Button onPress={onPress} title="Submit" />

// WRONG — raw Text with manual font/color styling
<Text style={{ fontSize: 16, fontWeight: "600", color: "#fff" }}>
  Account Balance
</Text>

// CORRECT

> <Typography size="md" semiBold secondary>Account Balance</Typography>

Reviewer: **[Comment 21 — Blocking] New "CORRECT" SDS examples use wrong APIs**

The new "Common violations to avoid" section is great in concept, but all three of the "CORRECT" examples won't compile against the actual SDS components:

```tsx
// CORRECT (per skill, but actually WRONG)
<Button onPress={onPress} title="Submit" />
<Typography size="md" semiBold secondary>Account Balance</Typography>
<Badge label="New" variant="error" />
```

**Real APIs:**

1. **`Button`** — takes `children?: string | React.ReactNode` (`src/components/sds/Button/index.tsx:260`), not `title`. Correct: `<Button onPress={onPress}>Submit</Button>`
2. **`Typography`** — **does not exist as an exported component**. The actual exports from `src/components/sds/Typography/index.tsx` are `Display` (line 242) and `Text` (line 344). `Typography` is just the folder/module name. The "Available SDS components" list at line 72 also says `Text / Typography (`Typography`)` which has the same mistake. Correct: `<Text md semiBold secondary>Account Balance</Text>` (using shorthand props as documented in the component's JSDoc).
3. **`Badge`** — takes `children: string` (`src/components/sds/Badge/index.tsx:46`), not `label`. Correct: `<Badge variant="error">New</Badge>`

An agent following the current `// CORRECT` examples will generate code that fails TypeScript on all three. Suggest:

```diff
-- Text / Typography (`Typography`)
+- Text / Typography (`Text`, `Display`)
 ...
-<Button onPress={onPress} title="Submit" />
+<Button onPress={onPress}>Submit</Button>
 ...
-<Typography size="md" semiBold secondary>Account Balance</Typography>
+<Text md semiBold secondary>Account Balance</Text>
 ...
-<Badge label="New" variant="error" />
+<Badge variant="error">New</Badge>
```
